angular-frontend/README.md, before:

# angular-frontend

angular-frontend provides you an out-of-the-box application setup to fast-start development of a Web Application based
on a Single Page Architecture: the UI is rendered in the browser, the data is retrieved and changed by (RESTful) API calls. Additionally, this aims to model an architecture where the frontend is deeply decoupled from the backend and have individual teams managing their respective components.

It is leveraging Angular as a technology stack, which provides:
- a way to implement UI elements using Components and Binding
- an Inversion of Control Container to wire together your Components and Services
- an integrated Web Server, so no need to deploy the built artifact to a separate running web or application server

The application contains example code to have a first page that lists customer profiles from an API.

It provides ways to test the service and component logic.

## Prerequisites
In order to further develop this application the following tools needs to be setup:
- NodeJS LTS (https://nodejs.org/) with NPM
- Angular CLI (https://angular.io/cli)
- Visual Studio Code or JetBrains IntelliJ/WebStorm as Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
- Tanzu Developer Tools plugin for the mentioned IDE

> This application contains only UI and expect several backend services to be available. You can either generate a backend based
> on the *Tanzu Java Restful Web App* Accelerator. Or build your own which shall provide 2 endpoints:
> - GET /api/customer-profiles/ returning an array of customer profiles in the form of  
> ```{"id":"<unique-id>", "firstName":"<first name>", "lastName":"<last name>", "email":"<email>" }```
> - POST /api/customer-profiles/ accepting a customer profile in the form of  
> ```{"firstName":"<first name>", "lastName":"<last name>", "email":"<email>" }```

# Local

## Run NPM install

```bash
$ npm install
```

## Test
It is a good habit to test and execute those tests to see if your application is still behaving as you would expect:

```bash
$ ng test
```

## Start and interact
Before being able to launch the application one shall configure where the backend services can be found. To do it please update the *target*
property in the *src/proxy.conf.json* file.  
Angular has its own integrated Development Web Server. Launch the application by:
```bash
$ ng serve
```

### Accessing home page
You can access the public page at `http://localhost:4200/` by a web browser.

# Deployment
## Tanzu Application Platform (TAP)
Using the `config/workload.yaml` it is possible to test, build and deploy this application onto a
Kubernetes cluster that is provisioned with Tanzu Application Platform (https://tanzu.vmware.com/application-platform).

Before deploying your application a Tekton Pipeline responsible for the testing step shall be created in your application
namespace. Please execute following command.

```bash
kubectl apply -f config/test-pipeline.yaml
```

> One can have several pipelines available simultaneously. Matching of a pipeline with a workload is done based on a label assign to a pipeline.  
> Pipeline:
> ```
> apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
> kind: Pipeline
> metadata:
>   name: angular-test-pipeline
>   labels:
>     apps.tanzu.vmware.com/pipeline: test-angular
> ...
> ```  
> Workload:
> ```
> apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
> kind: Workload
> ...
> spec:
>   params:
>     - name: testing_pipeline_matching_labels
>       value:
>         apps.tanzu.vmware.com/pipeline: test-angular
> ``` 

### Tanzu CLI
Using the Tanzu CLI one could apply the workload using the local sources:
```bash
tanzu apps workload apply \
  --file config/workload.yaml \
  --namespace <namespace> --source-image <image-registry> \
  --local-path . \
  --yes \
  --tail
````

Note: change the namespace to where you would like to deploy this workload. Also define the (private) image registry you
are allowed to push the source-image, like: `docker.io/username/repository`.

### Visual Studio Code Tanzu Plugin
When developing local but would like to deploy the local code to the cluster the Tanzu Plugin could help.
By using `Tanzu: Apply` on the `workload.yaml` it will create the Workload resource with the local source (pushed to an image registry) as
starting point.

## Deployment topology
A running pod of this workload will include a built Angular application, NGINX server and NGINX configuration. A build Angular application 
contains set of JavaScript, HTML, CSS and other static files which will be served by the NGINX HTTP server. Additionally to it the NGINX server
will act as a reverse proxy rerouting requests to the backend services. The rerouting rules you can find and adapt in the NGINX configuration
located in *nginx.conf* (see lines 161-163).  
![Deployment Topology](DeploymentTopology.png)  
 

# How to proceed from here?
Having the application locally running and deployed to a cluster you could add additional Components, Templates and Services to interact
with your API.

Commit message:

Minor improvements regarding local development: - README.md updated to take into account `npm install` before any `ng` commands - Update as well proxy.conf.json with backend provided by user

angular-frontend/README.md, after:

# angular-frontend

angular-frontend provides you an out-of-the-box application setup to fast-start development of a Web Application based
on a Single Page Architecture: the UI is rendered in the browser, the data is retrieved and changed by (RESTful) API calls. Additionally, this aims to model an architecture where the frontend is deeply decoupled from the backend and have individual teams managing their respective components.

It is leveraging Angular as a technology stack, which provides:
- a way to implement UI elements using Components and Binding
- an Inversion of Control Container to wire together your Components and Services
- an integrated Web Server, so no need to deploy the built artifact to a separate running web or application server

The application contains example code to have a first page that lists customer profiles from an API.

It provides ways to test the service and component logic.

## Prerequisites
In order to further develop this application the following tools needs to be set up:
- NodeJS LTS (https://nodejs.org/) with NPM
- Angular CLI (https://angular.io/cli) (will be part of the development dependencies of the application)
- Visual Studio Code or JetBrains IntelliJ/WebStorm as Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
- Tanzu Developer Tools plugin for the mentioned IDE

> This application contains only UI and expect several backend services to be available. You can either generate a backend based
> on the *Tanzu Java Restful Web App* Accelerator. Or build your own which shall provide 2 endpoints:
> - GET /api/customer-profiles/ returning an array of customer profiles in the form of  
> ```{"id":"<unique-id>", "firstName":"<first name>", "lastName":"<last name>", "email":"<email>" }```
> - POST /api/customer-profiles/ accepting a customer profile in the form of  
> ```{"firstName":"<first name>", "lastName":"<last name>", "email":"<email>" }```

# Local
Make sure to install dependencies first by executing:
```bash
$ npm install
```

## Test
It is a good habit to test and execute those tests to see if your application is still behaving as you would expect:

```bash
$ ng test
```

## Start and interact
Before being able to launch the application one shall configure where the backend services can be found. To do it please update the *target*
property in the `src/proxy.conf.json` file.  
Angular has its own integrated Development Web Server. Launch the application by:
```bash
$ ng serve
```

### Accessing home page
You can access the public page at `http://localhost:4200/` by a web browser.

# Deployment
## Tanzu Application Platform (TAP)
Using the `config/workload.yaml` it is possible to test, build and deploy this application onto a
Kubernetes cluster that is provisioned with Tanzu Application Platform (https://tanzu.vmware.com/application-platform).

Before deploying your application a Tekton Pipeline responsible for the testing step shall be created in your application
namespace. Please execute following command.

```bash
kubectl apply -f config/test-pipeline.yaml
```

> One can have several pipelines available simultaneously. Matching of a pipeline with a workload is done based on a label assign to a pipeline.  
> Pipeline:
> ```
> apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
> kind: Pipeline
> metadata:
>   name: angular-test-pipeline
>   labels:
>     apps.tanzu.vmware.com/pipeline: test-angular
> ...
> ```  
> Workload:
> ```
> apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
> kind: Workload
> ...
> spec:
>   params:
>     - name: testing_pipeline_matching_labels
>       value:
>         apps.tanzu.vmware.com/pipeline: test-angular
> ``` 

### Tanzu CLI
Using the Tanzu CLI one could apply the workload using the local sources:
```bash
tanzu apps workload apply \
  --file config/workload.yaml \
  --namespace <namespace> --source-image <image-registry> \
  --local-path . \
  --yes \
  --tail
````

Note: change the namespace to where you would like to deploy this workload. Also define the (private) image registry you
are allowed to push the source-image, like: `docker.io/username/repository`.

### Visual Studio Code Tanzu Plugin
When developing local but would like to deploy the local code to the cluster the Tanzu Plugin could help.
By using `Tanzu: Apply` on the `workload.yaml` it will create the Workload resource with the local source (pushed to an image registry) as
starting point.

## Deployment topology
A running pod of this workload will include a built Angular application, NGINX server and NGINX configuration. A build Angular application 
contains set of JavaScript, HTML, CSS and other static files which will be served by the NGINX HTTP server. Additionally to it the NGINX server
will act as a reverse proxy rerouting requests to the backend services. The rerouting rules you can find and adapt in the NGINX configuration
located in *nginx.conf* (see lines 161-163).  
![Deployment Topology](DeploymentTopology.png)  
 

# How to proceed from here?
Having the application locally running and deployed to a cluster you could add additional Components, Templates and Services to interact
with your API.
